DBMS-Database Management System That is used to store the data,Retrieve the data and update the data.
Uses and Advantages

STORE THE DATA
   To store the data like for example we have a student database in that we can store their Attendance Percentage and the academic marks.
UPDATE THE DATA
   In the same student database we can add new student detail and their data to our database.
MODIFY THE DATA
   The student details can be modified at any time
RETRIEVE THE DATA
    We need some student information we retrieve it.
SCALABILITY
    The database can be scalable and can handle so many data that need to added.
ACCESS CONTROL
    Can we take,Like a studenit information can not be accessible to any other person apart from the management.They have only the access.
DATA INTEGRITY
    The database is enforced to certain set of rules and the database Should be applicable for the correctness of the data all the time.

Disadvantages
Cost
   The cost of Setting up the DBMS is higher and it can be some affecting factor
Vendor-Lock in
   Consider You have been using a database and you want to change the database,But it is impossible to change it .This condition can be called as the vendor lock in.

Data Abstraction
  Data Abstraction is the condition to hide some internal details that are not much concerned by the user while interacting with the database.
Levels of Abstraction
Physical-In this level of abstraction only can know how the data is present and it is the low level of abstraction.
Logical-In this level of abstraction only can know what data is present and it is the medium level of abstraction.
View-In this kind of abstraction the users can only see the process that are taken place in the database.


DBMS Architecture
Physical level 
Logical level
      Conceptual Schema
      External Schema

3-tier Architecture
  This Architecture is widely used around the globe as it has three layers and it has been divided the responsibilities into small modules
         Presentation layer - This is the top most layer.It is the user Interface where the users can view and user can see.
         Service layer   -Business logic layer For example Server
         Database layer - It is the data layer where the data is stored.

Advantages of 3 tier architecture
   Scalability-Can handle n number of requests or functions.
   Modularity-Can divide the functions into modules and take over the responsibilities
   Efficient and Productive
Disadvantages
   complexity,Bottle necks
   

